So in this next section, what I'd like to
do is walk through building something.
And I figured that the best thing to walk
you building is sort of a simple web
server.
We tend to use node and
JavaScript a lot to do web type things, so
that seems like a natural place to start
and the deno docs do this as well.
Although the deno docs will focus
on like a TCP server as well,
which is something that
you can telnet into.
So we're just gonna focus on the web
scenario here, and build from there.
So, this is sort of the first
time that we're gonna get to use
the deno standard library
in any sort of depth here.
So let me do this, let's go ahead and
kick out all of the changes, and
I'm gonna switch my branch
over > Discard all the Files.
And then let me switch my branch to
building up a simple web server.
All right, so
we should have an empty app.ts file.
So what we wanna do here is
first we're going to bring
in the deno standard library server,
web server.
So I'm just gonna import that here.
And then you should be used to seeing this
where we get this squiggly because it
wants us to fetch.
And so we're gonna fetch the module, and
then that should give us some
intellicense here, there we go.
All right, so what we want to do is
create this web server here based on
this serve object that we've
imported from the standard library.
And if we were to look there's
some other things in here.
There's some decodeURI components,
some other stuff that we could use, but
all we really need is this serve object.
That's what we'll stick with.
The next thing that we're going to want
to do here is define a port and a host.
So we'll just do const PORT = 3000.
We'll run a PORT 3000.
And let's do const HOSTNAME.
And then we're gonna set this equal to,
we could do like local host.
We could do 127.0.0.1 but
it's actually better to do this,
which I just called the doughnuts,
0.0.0.0,
which is basically the same
thing as a local host.
Now, but it works better
with containers with docker.
So it's sort of the same thing.
It's just like saying localhost,
but it's the four doughnuts.
And then what we're gonna want to do is
tell our server to basically to listen.
So we're gonna create a server,
.const server = serve.
And then the server, as you can
see here with our typescript, and
once either an address or
port and hostname,
so let's do options and
look at what our options are with control.
Oops, control support,
support 3000, reset that support,
and then you can see
hostname here is optional.
I assume it defaults to localhost, but
we'll set the hostname here as well.
And we're just referencing
these constants.
And then what we need to do
now is we need to listen for
incoming requests to the web server.
And to do that,
Deno uses this sort of strange for
away const request of server loop,
which looks like an infinite loop, but
this is how you start the server and
listen for requests that come in.
So we're awaiting this server object for
any request that comes in.
Every time one comes in
we want to do something.
And to handle that,
what we can do is say req.respond.
And then, let's see here.
Inside here we have a response object,
again utilizing our typescript,
and we can set the body
equal to Hello world.
We've done a lot of Hello world today.
And then let's go ahead and save that and
our format is working nicely,
which is wonderful.
Okay, so considering, or assuming
that we've done everything correctly,
that I've done everything correctly, we
should have a very simple web server here.
Let's get out of this.
So let's just try to fire it up and
see what happens.
Let me just make sure I'm
in the right folder I am.
So app run, and then I want to
show you all a shortcut here so
that we don't have to keep
passing in over and over and
over again this like allow net,
allow read, allow this, allow that.
We can just do -A, which basically
means just opt out of all the security.
Don't ask, don't block anything,
just let everything go.
So this is basically like passing
in every allow flag possible.
So we're gonna allow,
and then let's patch,
let's do watch an unstable because
we need that with a watch and
then we'll run app.Ts, deno,
app run this on app run is deno run, deno.
Deno run.
I'm still learning how to say it.
Okay, so it's running, but
we don't know where it's running,
which isn't super helpful.
So let's do this.
Console.log("server now running
at http://") and check this out.
I have this really cool
extension called the strain.
What is it called?
It's called string, template converters,
template string converter
is the name of it.
This is for free.
Does not have anything to do with deno,
but
it's this really cool extension written
by Megan who's on the VS code team.
Watch what it does.
It's so simple but it's so awesome.
When you use the template
literal syntax watch the quotes.
It automatically converts the double
quotes to backticks, right?
So cool, one of my favorite extensions.
It doesn't have to be,
doesn't have to do anything really
cool to be super beneficial.
So thank you Megan for that.
All right, so we're just gonna do that our
server is running here and server is now
running, and then because we've got the VS
code terminal, we can just click here.
And we should, there we go, okay.
So, we have a simple web server.
Very nice, I know everybody's
super impressed, hello world.
All right, so that's our web server here.
By the way, if we were going to
specifically allow only local hosts,
then we would pass this
address to allow net, so
the allowed net equals https://0000:3000.
And we could allow just that, but
we're allowing everything with the -A.
So let's talk about, so
instead what we could do is,
instead of returning this,
let's return some HTML.
So let's do this, Hello world.
Okay, And then our watch changes.
Let's go over here.
We'll refresh, and now we have some actual
HTML, which, if you didn't know you can do
that you can, you don't actually need to
return a properly formatted HTML document.
The browser's smart enough to figure
that out so you can just give it an H1.
Okay, but
that's no way to build a web server,
can't just return HTML on the body.
So let's look at some common things that
we would do with a web server other than
just returning text which
is not terribly impressive.